All right, guys.
Welcome back to the course. So this lecture we're going
to talk about the first way of monetizing your account that
we talked about before, and that is
selling shoutouts or selling promotions.
Now, in general, when we're talking about
selling shoutouts or selling promotions,
I think you have a decent idea of what I'm talking
about, mainly because previously in the course we
did paid shoutouts and shout for shouts, but in case
you forgot, a shoutout is essentially when you repost
a post from another account and they either pay you
to do it or they give you some type of reciprocal
offering, like they put something on their own.
Now, when we're talking about monetizing your account,
we're talking about charging people to repost their
post, post like a promo video potentially, or to promote
a product or service for a legitimate business.
Now, in general this is going to break
down into two different categories.
One, you could potentially start selling shoutouts
to people that have their own Instagram account,
and in that case you're just going to be posting
something that they've made that's very attractive
or picking one of their best videos and
then driving traffic to their account.
The other option is to sell actual promotions to
some business or service or tool or some other type
of actual product that isn't just an Instagram account.
Now, when we're talking about selling shoutouts
for promotion of an instagram account,
keep in mind, it's kind of a limited market, since
a lot of the people that are buying shoutouts
to promote their own accounts are really only doing
that at the very beginning as a way to get a leg up
and a start in growing their account.
Also, in general, the people that are using this to grow
their accounts are using this as a means to an end.
So you're not really getting to them at the
most valuable point of their business growth.
Typically speaking, people are probably growing their
account for one of the four reasons we have listed
here for monetizing your account,
and later on, when they're larger,
that's actually when they have a higher ability to pay.
So promoting Instagram accounts,
I think there's a limited market, but you could definitely
make a business off of doing this and a lot of people do,
so don't obviously discount that.
There are accounts that have several million
followers, but they can easily make a thousand
dollars a day just by doing one post, I've even seen accounts
that do three posts a day and then they just immediately
delete them later and their prices
are, you know, like $500 a post.
Now, if you want to pursue this path of being able
to sell paid promotions or paid shoutouts, it kind
of starts at the beginning, and you guys are going to
hate me because I'm going to keep saying this during
this monetizing your account section, you kind of
have to think, when you first start the account,
"Who exactly am I going to be able
to promote?" Innovation Station,
we do tech, innovation, gadgets, science.
*-Yes, science!
-Okay.*
we do tech, innovation, gadgets, science.
*-Yes, science!
-Okay.*
So we have an obvious group of people out there
that might potentially want exposure on our account.
Now, if you make an account that posts memes, well,
then keep in mind that you're probably only going
to be able to sell promotions to other meme accounts
or maybe someone's making a website that's based
on memes, it's a very limited market
if this is your monetization strategy. Now, with regards
to pre-planning, there's no real difference between
trying to sell shoutouts to other accounts and trying to sell
shoutouts to companies or businesses and actual products.
It's kind of the same thing.
You have to think about your brand.
Are you going to create an account
that is perceived as high quality?
And are you going to be operating in a niche where
there's obviously going to be a lot of potential
people who could pay you for promotion? If you were
to create an account in, let's say, food, that's going
to be probably a limited market.
I mean, you're probably only going to be able to sell to
other accounts that are selling food, or you know, maybe
you get lucky and you can strike a deal with Blue
Apron or something like that, but just keep in mind,
that's a pretty narrow field, right?
Technology has a lot of different side industries, like
I was saying, like gadgets or just phones specifically,
that could potentially match up,
so I have a lot more options.
Now, let's talk about when you can do this, when can
you start actually selling paid shoutouts and promotions?
And it's going to depend on two different things.
One, when do you want to monetize your account? And
two, how seamlessly can you add in paid shoutouts or
promotions without it looking like an ad?
Now, the only real risk here is if you put in a paid
promotion and it's just not up to par with the rest
of your posts, it's distracting,
it's spammy, it's overly salesy,
that could actually damage your account, and anybody
who's coming to your account, even your regulars,
could easily get turned off by that.
So the question is, what ads can you safely go after?
And have you figured out a way to incorporate ads in a
way that's unobtrusive, but also effective at getting attention?
Now, the other question is, when
do you want to monetize this?
And again, it's kind of personal preference. What
I say is, first focus on figuring out a way that you
can post these without them being too
obnoxious or detracting from your account,
and if you can get to that point, then it doesn't matter
when you monetize it, because everything you're
posting isn't actually going to hurt your account.
It's only when we're talking about posts that are just
spammy and damaging that you might actually think
about pushing off the monetization on your account till later.
All right, now let's talk about the two different ways
that you can solicit ads or solicit paid promotions.
One is inbound and one is outbound. For inbound, the strategy is
pretty simple actually, you just put it in your bio.
If you look at Innovation Station,
we have four lines, we could use any one of those
lines in order to tell people that, hey, we're open for
business for selling paid promotions.
Typically you see people,
some people are really cavalier about this and they
just put "For paid promotions" and then they'll put
a contact piece, either it's their Gmail address, their Kik
messenger, or even just "DM us for paid promotions."
Now, I obviously don't like that, I don't like it when
you're too obvious about what you're promoting,
because if you're a casual follower and you came to their
account and you liked their content, and you're wondering
about whether or not you should hit follow and
see them in your feed for the rest of your life,
you're going to see that line that says "Message us for paid
shoutouts" and that's going to make you think that they,
yeah, they sell themselves out,
so occasionally you're going to get slammed with ads.
Nobody likes ads.
That's just a fact of nature, especially on social media.
That's why I say do something more tactful. Try to make
it actually sound like you are using this messaging
to improve your content strategy, right?
So as opposed to saying "DM for paid shoutout rates,"
you could just say something like
"Want to be featured? DM us."
Especially in the case of Innovation Station,
we highlight interesting technology,
so it would make sense that, hey, maybe someone might
contact us and say, "Hey, we have some great technology."
You as the user don't know what we're actually
going to discuss behind the scenes,
so you don't know if there is a very rigid
quality check for everything we post.
It also doesn't advertise that you're featurings are
paid, so you'll get a lot of attention from people
who want to pay and people who don't want to pay,
but it's very easy,
behind the scenes, in your direct message or in your
email, to explain to them, "Hey, actually we do featuring
for money, not just for giggles."
Now, if we were to take a peek at our DMs on Innovation
Station, we can actually see that this has started
happening, and we were not even that explicit
about the fact that we are open to promotions.
So our thing says "Open to submissions.
DM us." Now, submissions might be you just found
something interesting and you want us to cover it,
doesn't actually imply that it's yours.
So if we just go to our DMs, we can fish some of these out.
So just kind of digging through these, let's see, this
person, they asked "Hey, how much for a stories post?"
See, I didn't, I wasn't even soliciting this.
And I could respond, say, $50 bucks.
And whether or not that pricing is in line with what
people actually charge, you know, that conversation
could actually go somewhere.
Here's another one.
"Hello, I was wondering if I could advertise my
solar powered phone chargers on your page."
And they're saying "advertise," and advertise is not
a free posting, that's implying that they'll pay you.
So, you know, those are just two that I recently found.
I've had probably 10 or 12 people message me asking
whether or not I do paid promotions or at least
implying that they'd like to pay for it, then it's kind
of up to me obviously to choose whether or not
I want to feature them and what to charge.
Now, the alternative to this easy, lazy inbound strategy
is the outbound strategy, and that means actively
going out and finding potential
advertisers and then messaging them.
Now, you can either do this on Instagram, you can go
and look around in your niche to see other accounts
that are growing really fast or you've seen them post
ads somewhere else, and then easily just kind of
either making a list and contacting them all or just one
by one once you find somebody who's in your space
who could potentially be interested in doing
a shoutout, just messaging them directly.
Alternatively, you can actually expand this quite a bit
and you can start messaging companies themselves.
You know, if there's a product or a service you think
really, really fits well with your audience, something
your audience would really, really care about,
then you actually reach out to them directly. Like
in the case of Innovation Station, it'd be very easy
for me to just go on a Kickstarter and find a bunch
of really interesting tech gadgets and then offer
them something. Say, "Hey, I'll post on my
account highlighting your thing, featuring it,
if you pay a certain amount of money. I've even
gotten requests from a lot of users, like, for instance,
we did a post on a hydrofoil, which is like a surfboard
kind of that you stand on it, but you're kind
of floating in the air.
I don't know, you can see it in a video.
And I've had at least five or six people
ask me where they can buy that.
So it'd pretty easy for me to then go to that company
and be like, "Hey, we featured your thing, it had
several people interested in buying,
would you like to do a paid promotion?"
That's a pretty easy sell.
Now, here's my take on the inbound versus
outbound. Inbound is kind of a no brainer,
it doesn't really take anything from you,
it's not, if you do it well, do it tactfully, it's not going
to detract from your account or lower your
conversion rate for people hitting your page,
so you might as well do it.
Just be careful with your wording so
you don't sound like "Hey, this account's
for sale." Now, with outbound,
I generally say that you should just wait until you're
at least, say, 50,000 or 100,000 followers to do that,
and the reason why is because if you're too small,
you're just wasting your time, you're not going to
get a lot of responses from people, because it's just
not worth their time to set up an arrangement for
an ad if you only have 10,000 followers.
Especially when you start reaching out to Kickstarters
or companies, I don't know, let's say you sell crafts and
you're going on Etsy and messaging people,
it's really going to be hard for people
to care if you're a small account.
So I generally say wait till you're larger. If I have 5,000
followers, it'd be very hard to get anyone to pay me,
but if I had a million, it'd be pretty dang easy to go to someone
and say "For $500 bucks, I'll get this in front of a million people."
So that's the first thing you have to decide. Are
you going to open up your accounts to inquiries?
Personally, my take is, why not?
It's not going to really cost you anything, as long as you
put some thought into that one line that you use.
Second question is, are you going to do outbound? And
then the question is, how big is your account, and how
much time do you want to put into this?
All right, so the next thing you want to do if this is
the strategy you want to pursue, is you want to
build a price list and you want to build some instructions.
So we're going to tackle that in the next lecture.
So see you then.